From Wall Street to rural America,
today's AI is the economy and markets
have priced it like a miracle that can't
fail.
>> Investors are really banking on
incredible growth. Microsoft, Meta,
Alphabet, they are just committing
billions and billions of dollars to
capital expenditures and expected to
continue to, you know, raise those
numbers over time. The AI boom is more
than just software. It's construction.
So that's building out the data centers.
That's securing the energy that's
needed, the water that's needed.
>> But in this burgeoning industry, what
goes around doesn't necessarily come
around.
>> A precarious investment strategy is
emerging.
>> Multi-billion dollar circular deals.
>> Nvidia will invest as much as $100
billion in open AI.
>> The merrygo route of money continues.
Huge huge sums of money are just being
passed between these enormous companies
that are pouring hundreds of billions of
dollars into the promise of AI. And the
promise is huge.
>> About 80% of US businesses use AI. So
this is a structural shift like
electricity or the internet.
>> But AI with all its potential remains
largely unproven for profitability.
Probably the biggest question in San
Francisco right now is are we in an AI
bubble? And if we are, then well, how
big is this bubble and how bad would it
be if and when it does burst? So, is
this the dawn of a new age of AI powered
growth or the biggest bubble ever?
A circular deal is when companies are
basically blowing money, products,
services in between two of them. Nvidia
has said it's going to invest up to
hundred billion dollars in OpenAI. At
the same time, OpenAI is a major
customer of Nvidia services of their
chips. To make it even more complicated,
there are also sort of other middlemen.
One example is Oracle. OpenAI sometimes
will lease compute from Oracle and so
you have Oracle being a customer of
Nvidia. So you can see how there can be
more sort of arrows back and forth
between these companies.
>> But Nvidia, OpenAI and Oracle are just
part of the web. The full picture
entails a who's who of the AI landscape.
>> This money is kind of spinning around
the same companies and that's why people
are worried.
>> I don't think there's anything
inappropriate about that in principle.
Now if you start stacking these where
they get to huge amounts of money then
yeah you can you you can you can can
overextend yourself of course
>> becomes kind of symbiotic and I think
that's sort of the concern that's
cropping up now is if one of those
companies stumbles or doesn't do well
does the whole thing fall apart.
>> A lot of this investment is going
straight to the buildout of data centers
across the nation.
>> We're really in an infrastructure
buildout arms race.
>> Have a look at construction spending in
2025.
It's down in most sectors, but not data
centers or power stations.
>> You're seeing a lot of companies that
are sort of the picks and shovels of the
AI industry. They're out there actually,
you know, digging into the ground. One
recent estimate from Morgan Stanley
predicts that companies will spend $3
trillion on AI data centers. That is
obviously a major bet.
>> If you're in the business of selling
picks and shovels, you are living it up.
You are getting all the money you need.
and there's more demand than you can
meet.
We're currently in a facility that was
once upon a time a textile facility, one
of the largest ones on the eastern
seabboard, about 1 million square foot.
We realized we could actually repurpose
it as a data center.
There is an insatiable demand for
building data centers, for making sure
that we have the power to build the data
centers, the megawatts, the
infrastructure and the expertise. We
don't see any slowdown in that for a
long while.
When it comes to artificial
intelligence, time is not your friend.
So if you can get up and running in 6
months using a retrofit format versus a
green field format which is starting
from scratch which takes up to 2 years
that's a much better proposition.
All these data centers need power. The
growth in utility costs is outpacing
inflation.
>> Utility companies have done really well
especially ones that are providing
energy to data centers. Construction
stocks have done well. But building fast
isn't always built to last.
>> You don't just build a data center,
switch it on, forget about it, and make
money. You have to keep on investing to
keep that technology working. Otherwise,
it will quickly become useless to the
people you want to sell it to.
>> And so far, all major AI projects are
operating at a loss.
>> The problem is every time someone uses
chat GPT, open AI likely loses money.
Those open AIs and anthropics of the
world are not yet profitable.
>> Sam Alman says Open AI should be able to
break even around 2029 2030. Given the
amount of cash that company's burning
through right now and the amount it
still needs to spend to build the data
centers and pay for the computing power
uh to do what it wants to do, that feels
like a tall order to me. There's some
concern about whether the AI startups
are actually able to pay their bills
when they're racking up these huge
commitments to spending on data center
infrastructure.
>> These AI data center companies, they are
the kind of canary in the coal mine.
They are the ones where we perhaps see
on their balance sheet any first sign of
companies pulling back from needing as
much AI data center capacity.
Right now, all the companies, they're
all saying that the demand for AI
products is really, really high. If that
were to change, if demand were to
suddenly weaken, that would become an
issue.
>> To understand the stakes of today's AI
boom, you don't need a crystal ball,
just a quick trip down memory lane.
>> You've got mail.
>> In 2000, the dotcoms promised a brave
new world. Instead, we got wiped out
savings, empty office parks, and $5
trillion in vanished value.
>> The worst hit shares around the world
have been the technology stocks,
including the dotcom companies. Even the
strongest companies in that era, took
years to recover. Amazon, one of the big
great famous survivors, its share price
didn't recover for another 8 years after
the.com crash happened. Cisco, one of
the kicks and shovel companies, it took
them 25 years before their stock price
recovered.
>> There are definitely some similarities.
One is that there is circular deal
making in both instances. The question
is, is this bubble going to get to a
level that goes beyond just kind of the
normal ups and downs of tech booms, but
actually has major consequences for the
economy? The dotcom boom was devastating
for the economy, but I don't think it
would compare to the far-reaching
effects of the AI boom collapsing.
The money pouring in has been a huge
contributor of growth to GDP, helping
boost a US economy otherwise hampered by
tariffs and inflation.
Everyday Americans are exposed to this
risk via 401ks and other investment
accounts that hold stakes in many of the
big tech companies participating in the
spending spree. So does that mean the AI
bubble is too big to pop?
>> There's definitely this question about
are these companies becoming too big to
fail? If they were to go down, that
could have not just economic
consequences.
There is a suggestion this might be like
the global financial crisis where huge
financial institutions needed money to
survive to prevent a wider collapse of
the economy. Then that's obviously a far
greater problem for the US economy.
But despite these stakes, many remain
bullish on AI because of the evolving
nature of the technology itself. In the
dotcom boom, there were companies that
were laying fiber optic cable. Like
subsidiaries of a company were basically
all spending in a circle and it did
contribute to the dot bubble popping.
>> But after a while, that became the
backbone of internet broadband. And that
unused part of all the fiber optics that
were built in the '90s actually ended up
being extremely important for the
internet. And so we think with respect
to data centers, if there is potential
excess capacity that's being built,
those data centers will eventually be
used.
There's a scenario here where AI takes
longer than we think and therefore the
strongest companies, sure they'll
survive, but in the meantime, there
might be a huge hit to their valuations.
>> Ultimately, this technology is not going
to burst. There are certain companies
that will not make it, but AI itself is
not a bubble. There are real products.
It's clearly the biggest gamble
that Wall Street has ever made. And this
is a street known for its gambling. This
is the wager to end them all.